Tutorials on fluid-fluid coupling with the preCICE OpenFOAM adapter (#326)
precice/tutorials: flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow/README.md

---
title: Flow over heated plate with partitioned flow
permalink: tutorials-flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow.html
keywords: tutorial, CHT, conjugate-heat transfer, OpenFOAM, FEniCS, Nutils, FF, flow partitioning
summary: This tutorial describes how to run a conjugate heat transfer coupled simulation using preCICE and any fluid-solid solver combination of our <a href="adapters-overview.html">officially provided adapter codes</a>.
---

{% note %}
Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://www.precice.org/tutorials.html).
{% endnote %}

## Setup

The setup for this tutorial is similar to the [flow over a heated plate](https://www.precice.org/tutorials-flow-over-heated-plate.html). In this case we additionally partition the OpenFOAM fluid to create a three-way coupling using CHT (conjugate heat transfer) and FF (fluid-fluid coupling).

> The test case is two-dimensional and uses a serial-implicit coupling with Quasi-Newton acceleration for the fluid-fluid coupling. The CHT coupling between the solid and the fluid2 participant is changed to serial-explicit because it does not make sense numerically to have multiple serial-implicit schemes. (see also [here](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling-multi.html))

Reviewer: While composing a serial-explicit and a serial-implicit coupling works, why not use a fully-implicit `coupling-scheme:multi` here? It would be easier to configure and more robust. This is different than composing multiple implicit schemes.

Unless that would be an interesting demonstration/test case (@uekerman).

Author: From my understanding `coupling-scheme:multi` is essentially a parallel scheme.
From my experiments so far, fluid-fluid coupling works a lot worse with parallel coupling and in the case of `buoyantPimpleFoam`, I did not manage to get such a scheme working at all.

Reviewer 2: Parallel coupling sometimes needs a bit more tweaking. 

If there is a physical (or numerical) motivation why for the CHT coupling an explicit treatment is enough, combining an explicit with an implicit coupling scheme is completely fine.

Reviewer: Then let's add some documentation about this, linking to this page: https://precice.org/configuration-coupling-multi.html

Author: As a follow up on this. I did manage to do parallel fluid coupling also with `pimpleFoam`.
However, when using `coupling-scheme:multi`, the simulation is stuck at the first `Advance preCICE ...` step.

I will add the documentation and open issue on this for now.

* FEniCS. For more information, have a look at the [FeniCS adapter documentation](https://www.precice.org/adapter-fenics.html).

* Nutils. For more information, have a look at the [Nutils adapter documentation](https://precice.org/adapter-nutils.html).

* Dune-Fem. For more information, have a look at the [official documentation of Dune-Fem](https://www.dune-project.org/sphinx/dune-fem/). The solver can be installed through [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/dune-fem/). Make sure that you are in a Python virtual environment first, which you can create inside the `solid-dune` directory and load again before running (you may need to install some tools again in this environment). Please note that Dune-Fem uses just-in-time compilation: The first time you run the solver script, it will take some time.

## Running the Simulation

All listed solvers can be used in order to run the simulation. Open three separate terminals and start the OpenFOAM fluid participant and any solid participant by calling the respective run script `run.sh` located in the participant directory. For example:

```bash
cd fluid1-openfoam
./run.sh
```

and

```bash
cd fluid2-openfoam
./run.sh
```

and

```bash

> cd solid-fenics

Reviewer: Maybe change to `solid-openfoam` and only keep that case.

Author: Okay, done in [3fca9ca](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/pull/326/commits/3fca9ca16c127b41852403a603375937d0717775)

./run.sh
```

## Post-processing

Have a look at the [flow-over heated-plate](https://www.precice.org/tutorials-flow-over-heated-plate.html) tutorial for the general aspects of post-processing.

An example of the visualized expected results looks as follows:

![result](images/tutorials-flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow-results.png)

> Observe that the temperature at the bottom of the plate is 310K and at the inlet 300K. On the interface, the temperature is between these values. An area of higher temperature is formed above the plate, which is shifted towards the front, driven by the flow. The temperature is coupled smoothly across the fluid-fluid coupling interface.

Reviewer: Would it help adding some line plot demonstrating the "smoothly"?

Author: What kind of plot are you thinking? Comparing to a monolithic solution (here normal flow-over-heated-plate tutorial)?

Reviewer: No, I meant just a line plot from the bottom of the plate to the top of the channel, crossing the interface. Surface plots (especially when visualizing interpolated node values) do not easily show any such issues.

Reviewer: Ah, nice, this also shows where the line plot actually is.

---
title: Flow over heated plate with partitioned flow
permalink: tutorials-flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow.html
keywords: tutorial, CHT, conjugate-heat transfer, OpenFOAM, FEniCS, Nutils, FF, flow partitioning
summary: This tutorial describes how to run a conjugate heat transfer coupled simulation using preCICE and any fluid-solid solver combination of our <a href="adapters-overview.html">officially provided adapter codes</a>.
---

> {% note %}
> Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://www.precice.org/tutorials.html).
> {% endnote %}
> 
> Fluid-fluid coupling is still experimental. The following setup is needed to run this tutorial:
> 
> - preCICE v2 ([release version](https://github.com/precice/precice/releases))
> - OpenFOAM adapter ([develop version](https://github.com/precice/openfoam-adapter/tree/develop))
> 

Reviewer: I would use the `note` alerts and formulate it like this (unfortunately, itemize does not work inside alerts).

```suggestion
{% note %}
Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/flow-over-heated-plate-partitioned-flow). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://www.precice.org/tutorials.html).
{% endnote %}

{% note %}
This tutorial relies on yet unreleased features of the OpenFOAM adapter. You need [preCICE v2](https://github.com/precice/precice/releases)) and [the ff-develop branch of the OpenFOAM adapter](https://github.com/precice/openfoam-adapter/tree/ff-develop) to run this tutorial.
{% endnote %}

```
